---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: BrowserHistory WOD
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-01-27
labels:
  - WOD
  - BrowserHistory
---
**Edited on: 2/12/2022**

**BrwoserHistory 1, 2, 3**
For the first BrowserHistory although it was recommended to start by watching the screencast I had decided to try and jump right in to test my knowledge. I managed to finish in around 16 or 18 minutes on my first attempt, and around 20 minutes on my second attempt. I feel that as long as you are able to follow along with most of what goes on in class and do the readings it should be relatively easy to figure out what to do without watching the screencast before. Also, a few tips to make it a bit easier is, before you start reading what the WOD is asking for and if you are unsure what code is needed for a certain part then pull up the reference material beforehand, that way while doing it you can just jump straight to the reference content without spending the time to search for it. Also, an important thing I learned from the first check is your spelling, one wrong letter will drive you crazy trying to figure out what is wrong. For the second BrowserHistory I finished my first attempt in around 21 minutes or so, for the second attempt I finished in 10 to 15 minutes, and in 5 minutes for my third attempt. For the most part, the second BrowserHistory was basically the same, if you understand most of the content and prepare any needed reference material then it should be fine. On the first attempt, I was delayed since I was trying to look up all of the proper formatting and commands that need to be used. For the second attempt, I had a rough idea of what needed to be done and it went pretty smooth. The third attempt was done because I didn’t have narration on my recordings and need to do another one. However, since I had a good understanding of what needed to be done I was able to get through it quickly. For the third BrowserHistory my first attempt was done in 21 minutes, my second attempt was in 17 minutes, and the third attempt was 12 minutes. What I learned from the third BrowserHistory is to make sure you are editing the right file, since you are copying the files from the previous BrowserHistorys make sure you are on the right file or you might spend a lot of time wondering why your changes aren't going through. My first attempt went over 20 minutes since I spent a lot of time trying to figure out why my changes weren’t being reflected on the page to find out that I was editing the wrong file. On the second attempt, I had a decent idea of what I was doing so it went pretty smoothly. For the third attempt, I already knew what needed to be done so it went a lot quicker with a light delay since there was a weird formatting issue that I didn’t encounter on the previous attempts that I couldn’t figure out and still don’t know what caused it, but at the end of the day the page works, it looks weird, but works.

**BrowserHistory 6, SmartPhoneProducts1_variables, Invoice1**
SmartPhoneProducts1_variables had you take your SmartPhoneProducs file from the labs and convert all of the phone data (i.e. name, price, image) to variables. For this WOD I was able to finish it in 17 minutes with 1 attempt. Like I had mentioned with the previous WODs if you have a decent understanding of what is covered in class then this should be pretty simple since you are just putting in a bunch of var commands. The thing that takes the longes on this WOD is just having to find all of your code for each variable (i.e. name, price, image) and having to constantly scroll up and down while copying and pasting. BrowserHistory 6 had you take your previous browser history and reformat it by creating buttons where the page index used to be and separating the different histories into their own page. For this WOD I took 21 minutes and 1 attempt. This one was simple as well since it uses the onclick and onmouseover commands that were covered in the lab. It also gives the code that is needed to create the buttons. For the most part, it's just copying and pasting code with slight tweaking to adjust the path (i.e. changing firefox to chrome so you don't have two firefoxes). One issue I had with this WOD was that I wasn't able to get images to pop up in the box when you moused over the buttons. But after a few minutes of fiddling around, I found it was just a spelling error in the code. Again, since it's just copying and pasting it should be pretty simple, I think on that part I ended up trying it myself and that led to the spelling error. Invoice1 had you create an invoice using variables. I finished this one in 40 minutes on my first attempt and 21 minutes on my second attempt. Again this one was relatively easy, but I did 2 attempts because I got a little confused with the instructions and my code started to get a little messy but still worked, but I wanted to try again and clean it up. Something that I did that created the mess was instead of making the sub cost, tax, and total variables I was just adding them up in a document.write in the table instead. As you can imagine it got really long and messy. After I re-read through the instructions I noticed that it wanted all of that to be as variables. So I decided to redo it making them variables and it made it a lot simpler.
