---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My Progress in Programming Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-04-02
labels:
  - E4
---

Before this class, I knew nothing about programming. But now I am able to create a decent-looking (and working) website. I still need to improve my ability to look up solutions. Sure, it's easy enough to just google things, but it’s about being able to ask the right questions to get the answers that you want. For the WODs I recommend reading what it wants you to do first then pulling up and looking over the reference material for it. This saves time when doing the WOD of trying to find reference material since you would already have a general idea of what to do and you can just tab back to it instead of spending the time to find it. For the most part, you can get by without watching the screencast for them. Also, don't be afraid if you do things differently than the screencast. For the first browser history (or maybe the second) you needed to line up all the browser histories in a row (horizontally not vertically). To achieve this, I ended up putting the browser histories in a table format. After I finished, I was curious how the screencast achieved it since it looked slightly different from the finished product image. After looking at the screencast I found that they went through the CSS file and alighted it through there. However, since my table worked and achieved the goal, I just left it like that. Like the professor always says there are many ways to do something. I feel like doing the labs in class helped me more than the readings and screencasts. The readings help to get the general idea of how to do things, but I feel that doing the labs in class help to reinforce that since the professor thoroughly explains how to do things and why they do things. In Assignment 1 I learned how easy it is to use a web template, I imagined that it would be much harder to create a decent-looking website. I also learned how easy it is to break said template. The template I used had the products laid out in a 4x2 grid. I had originally put 4 products since that would easily fit in the template. But then in class, the professor said that we needed 5 products (it didn’t say that on the assignment, at least I don’t think it did). So, I just casually added another product to my products array and checked the sight. But then the formatting on the site got messed up. Apparently, it didn’t like having more than 4 products in a row since it forced the 5th product to a new row and messed up some other things. Since I didn’t know how to fix the template to accept a 5th product on the row, I just added 3 more products for a total of 8. This was able to realign everything and was a quick and easy solution. The hardest part of doing this solution was trying to think of another 3 products to add (for the most part I just blanked, and needed Google to tell me more products for my topic). I think the thing that helped me the most are doing the labs in class. Whenever we need to finish the labs by ourselves it’s a little hard to do since it asks questions that the readings don’t tell you, like why this does this and not that, or to explain why it does it. But the readings only tell you that this is what it does, not the why. Since the professor explains the why and helps to enforce what was learned in the readings, I believe that doing the labs in class help the most. Because of this, I think that the class could be improved by having the class recording put online. I know that they already are being put online, but sometimes they don’t get put up until a week later or after a lab is due (granted this is just a result of forgetfulness as well as needing to share that room with other class limiting access to that computer). I know that the professor says that a solution to this is just to record the lectures ourselves but I don’t know about others, but my computer just cannot handle the processing load. I have a surface, so I have limited ram with no dedicated graphics. So, between running vs code, the local server, GitHub, zoom with the screen share and my camera, plus my browser, whenever I try to do much more it starts to slow down a lot and stutter since the ram can’t take the load. I can’t even be on w3 school at the same time as the class since just loading the ads on that sight puts it over the top. I do have a gaming computer that could easily handle it, however just for security reasons I try my best to keep my school and gaming things on separate machines since the gaming pc is more likely to get a virus. Also, in class, we are required to have our cameras on, and I don’t have one for my gaming pc, so that forces me to work on the surface. But, back to the class recordings, I think that since it’s such a big help for most students it should be available for future classes. I imagine that regular classes don’t have access to them since they are typically in person so there would be no platform to record on anyways. But, since for our class they are already recorded he could just reuse them for future classes to reference, he would just need to change the titles of the recordings from the date to whatever labs we were working on. If he does do this I would recommend using the lab name instead of the lab numbers since he seems to change the lab orders every semester.
