---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: My Progress in Programming Essay
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-04-16
labels:
  - E5
---

**1.	Provide a brief introduction to the assignment along with a link to this page for further details**
For assignment 2 we needed to take our assignment 1 and introduce a login and register page between the store page and the invoice. The register page had to include information like email, password, password conformation, and full name. There also needed to be a way to check that the email was in a proper email format and insensitive. The password also had to be a minimum of 8 characters and case sensitive. 

**2.	What did you learn from this assignment?**
Through this assignment I was able to learn how to introduce a login and registration page as well as how to keep and change user information. I also learned how to make a email validation check and transfer data across multiple pages. 

**3.	Did you work with a partner? Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself).**
For this project I had worked by myself. 

**4.	How did you get help when you needed it? What did you need help with?**
During this assignment I needed help with making an email validation as well as a name validation. To solve this, I looked up how to make one on google.

**5.	How was developing this assignment different than assignment #1?**
For this assignment we had to integrate new parts into our server file whereas in assignment 1 we needed to build everything from the ground up. I feel that it is much easier to work with a foundation already laid rather than having to build a completely new foundation.

**6.	Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging**
I think that 30% of my time was spent thinking about how to do something. Something that took up a lot of this time was find a way to integrate disabling the submit button into the different validations, which later needed to be taken out as it caused some conflicts with the grading requirements. Another thing that took a lot of time was trying to pass the data through the login page to the invoice. 

**7.	Describe what worked well with this project? What did not work well?**
For this project my login and registration page worked well and I was able to set them up relatively easily. I originally had it set up where it would happen on one page and with a button it would re-write the innerHTML to create the different forms needed. However, the way that I had chose to pass the data through to the invoice caused conflicts with this and as a result I needed to separate the login and registration pages. 

**8.	If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you do differently?**
If I could do things differently, I would probably want to make the login page and the registration page happened withing the same page. However, with my limited knowledge I don’t know of a way that this could be addressed.

**Links**

[E5: Reflecting on Assignment 2](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2_retrospective.html)

[Assignment 2](https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/150.Assignment2/experience-Assignment2.html)
