---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflecting on Assignment 3
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-05-05
labels:
  - E6
---

**1.	Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)**
My store started off as a fruit store that poked fun at the Apple tech company being named after a fruit and being the most expense brand on the market. Because this project required us to have more than one type of product, it evolved into include vegetables, berries, and nuts.

**2.	Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?**
A feature that was not implemented was a logout button. When I was making the logout path on the server for some reason I kept getting a can not get error. I wasn’t able to make any sense of why this error was coming up since the logout was only 3 lines of code. I also tried to keep track of the login status by using a cookie but for some reason I got no errors but on the if statement that I wrote to check if the cookie was true or not, for some reason wasn’t properly checking it. As such, I ended up having to leave it out. 

**3.	Describe what you are most proud of about your system:**
I think the part that I am most proud of is the fact that it works. I spend 6+ hours mulling over this project trying to get it to work and thinking of solutions to fix the problems.

**4.	Describe what you are least happy with your system:**
I’m least happy that I had to remove my feature that disabled the submit button on the product page, login, registration, and new password pages. I’m especially unhappy about it since I was proud of it and I had implemented it on the login, registration, and new password pages for Assignment 2 before the grade for Assignment 1 came back telling me to remove it (it didn’t explicitly say to remove it, but I got points docked for it).

**5.	How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?**
Assignment 2 was different from assignment 3 in the way that I had more issues with coming up with solutions and implementing them since the implementation of cookies in html was not covered in class.

**6.	When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?**
When I ran into a problem, I just tried to do it a different way (i.e. if I couldn’t get a cookie to do something, I tried to do it using a session). And if that didn’t work, then I’d google the issue 5 different ways (most of the things I found didn’t help).

**7.	Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?**
Something that worked well implementing the session to act as a shopping cart. This was easy since we covered it during the Assignment 3 workshop.

**8.	Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?**
Something that did not work well was the cookies. Since we only coved this in the lab and the lab only went over how to use them on the server and not in the html files it was hard to find a solution to implement them. 

**9.	What did you learn from doing this assignment?**
I learned how to implement cookies on html and how to implement a session to act as a shopping cart. (I know, I’m obsessed with this cookie issue. You would be too if you spent 2.5 hours googling and trying to implement it.)

**10.	If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?**
Something I would change would be re-implementing my feature to disable the submit buttons on the pages. The code for the functions are still there but just commented out, but I would still need to go over the rest of the code to add the placed where the function needs to be called. After spending so much time dealing with all of the other issues I just couldn’t be bothered to re-implement. 

**11.	Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging**
a. 30%, b. 35%, c. 35%

**12.	Assign an estimated percentage on the amount each team member contributed to the assignment (including yourself) and explain briefly your rationale for the percentage breakdown. Be sure to include an overview of what specifically you and your partners contributed (e.g. “I worked on the security and my partner 1 worked on personalization”)**
I worked alone on this assignment.
